[DRAMATIC WHOOSH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Ancient cultures around the
world had a ruling class that
practiced intentional
cranial modification,
a procedure to deliberately
reshape the skull to express
status, wealth, and nobility.
Some of the oldest
examples of this
were dated as far back as
five to 12,000 years ago
in China and spans
continents around the world.
Was this an attempt to
imitate an advanced race
of beings with elongated heads?
If so, might they be
extraterrestrials,
and what evidence suggests
that they actually existed?
>> In my opinion, there was an
advanced civilization on this
planet at one point who
were our progenitors.
I very much believe they
had elongated skulls
from what we can see in
all our ancient iconography
and mythologies.
And subsequently, all the other
civilizations that followed
attempted to mimic them.
Sometimes that included
cranial deformation.
At other times, that included
different hats and symbolism.
But we know that
they existed, and we
know that they came before us.
>> Why should humans make
elongated head, and how?
We know it from Central
and South America.
When the Spanish conqueror
arrived, for example,
in today's Peru, they saw
some of the young priest
boys which had long heads.
And they asked them, how do
these long heads come from?
They brought them at home.
And at home, they show
the Spanish conqueror.
They show the babies.
The babies who were just born--
they just left the
mother's womb--
and because the head,
the bones are soft,
they pressed the
bones of the boys
so that the bones became
longer and longer.
>> The reason that this
mimicry, or cranial deformation,
took place is because these
rulers with the elongated
skulls were venerated
in the ancient world.
Who were they trying to mimic?
Who were they trying to uphold?
Again, we have this
very ancient connection
to these rulers with
elongated skulls.
>> While elongated skulls
are a worldwide phenomena,
some of the best examples
to have been scientifically
examined come from Peru.
Four hours South of Lima is
the Paracas Peninsula of Peru,
an area surrounded by rich
agricultural landscapes
and a civilization
that can be traced back
to at least 5,000 years.
It is here, in 1928, that
archaeologist Julio Tello
discovered a collection of
enormously elongated skulls.
Canadian scientist
Brien Foerster
has lived in Peru for
the past 10 years,
dedicating his entire focus
to studying these specimens.
>> And it wasn't until
about 12 years ago,
when I entered this museum here
owned, by Señor Juan Navarro,
who was a local
amateur archaeologist,
that I saw my first
elongated skull.
And actually, it's
a mummified one.
And coming from a biological
premed background,
I was astonished at seeing this
because I couldn't understand
what it was.
We have examples of skulls--
the oldest ones, which appear
to be natural elongated skulls.
And then, later on, when
you have the Nazca culture
interacting with
the Paracas, that's
when the head binding began.
Standard academia
states that the Paracas
arrived on the coast of
Peru, or evolved as a group,
as a cohesive group, probably
around 800 BC or 600 BC.
But that's not based on any
radiocarbon analysis at all.
It's a supposition.
So we're the only ones who
have been able to actually do
radiocarbon testing.
And the results that we
have been able to get
do fit into that timeline.
The oldest one that we've
been able to radiocarbon test
is around 2,400 years old.
So that's near the beginning of
the so-called Paracas period.
Again, among the original
elongated skulls,
which we believe were born
with elongated skulls,
they have eye sockets which are
probably 50% larger than normal
and are more
vertically elongated.
Also, the jaw, the lower jaw--
the mandible-- is much
larger than normal.
And then, there are
also these two holes
in the back of the
skull here, which
are a genetic characteristic.
And what they
probably indicate is
that was for blood
and nerve flow
in order to properly
feed and nourish
the vertically elongated head.
>> In every single case, these
elongated skulls are different
from normal human beings.
For so long, the experts--
the archaeologists,
the anthropologists--
have told us that these skulls
were created by human beings
by pushing the brain when
the person was a child
and deforming the
skull-- the head.
But now we know,
through analysis of DNA,
they are not similar to us.
>> Radiocarbon testing has
dated the oldest elongated skull
to approximately
2,400 years old.
That's the beginning of the
so-called Paracas period.
>> The intriguing thing about
the fact that the earliest
elongated skulls--
almost if not 100% of them--
they show that they had,
while they were alive,
a very rich, dark reddish hair.
And that is not a Native
American characteristic.
That's another suggestion of
migration from somewhere else.
Most people think
of red hair as being
the characteristic
of Scandinavians
or Irish people or
Scottish people.
But, in fact, it goes
back to the Middle East.
And that's somewhat
in the area where
we're starting to see a genetic
DNA relationship, as well.
Two major hair experts
studying hundreds
of samples of
Paracas red hair have
stated that black hair
always remains black.
Red hair, of course,
over the course of time,
can lighten to blondish.
That is a genetic
characteristic that
doesn't fit in with
standard history
of Native American people
of the coast of Peru.
And the other thing
is none of the skulls
that we've examined
show canine teeth.
So they don't have the canine,
predatory, meat-eating tooth
that we have.
They're all quite normal,
or regular looking.
And that's an anomaly.
Well, the basic
characteristics that
distinguish cranial deformation
from a natural skull
is the lack of the suture line.
I'm not talking
about a partial lack.
It's non-existent.
>> In a normal human
skull, the sagittal suture,
which is a connective tissue
joint between the two parietal
bones of the skull, appears from
the frontal plate and continues
over the dome of the skull,
connecting with the occipital
plate in the rear.
Many of the skulls
discovered in Paracas,
however, are completely
devoid of a sagittal suture.
Might this be a genetic
anomaly of a human being
or point to other possibilities
worth considering?
>> We performed analysis
on the skull volume--
the size of the skulls--
as compared to humans.
The skulls had a larger
volume than human skulls--
slightly larger volume.
The morphology of
the skull plates--
so there's sutures that are
very well evident on a cranium--
the sutures where the two
plates of the cranial skull
come together were different
in the elongated skulls.
So we were able to document all
these morphological differences
with the skulls
and then, as well,
able to perform a DNA
extraction of tissue samples
from both of the skulls.
>> While intentional cranial
modification changes the shape
of the skull, the
question remains--
would it alter
other features that
are characteristic of
a regular human skull?
>> It's mainly in the skull
characteristics that we find
these massive anomalies,
including what's called
the foramen magnum.
And that is where your
spinal column enters
the bottom of your skull.
In the original elongated
skulls of this area,
the foramen magnum
is a full 1 inch
back from where
it's supposed to be.
Because with us, of course,
it's at the balance point,
so it's almost in the center.
But the original Paracas, it's
basically 1 inch backwards.
And that matches with the
vertical elongated skull
characteristic.
>> They are human mutations
because we have a fetus with
an elongated skull.
We have the hole that joins
the heads to the spine
is moved backwards more
than one centimeter.
That is not possible.
If you do that with a
human being, you kill it.
The foramen hole is moved.
And that proves that this is not
the same kind of human beings.
>> When intentional cranial
modification is carried out
on a baby, the head binding
usually begins a month after
birth, when the head
is most pliable,
and continues for
six months or longer.
Previous discoveries
of fetuses and newborns
with an elongated
head suggests that
intentional cranial modification
could not have taken place,
since it takes at least
six months to modify
the shape of its head to
produce the desired results.
>> So if you deform the head,
you can get it to be more
conic, but you won't be able
to get it to change its volume.
>> We've had many doctors,
many nurses, many dentists,
and even brain specialists and
brain surgeons and people like
that, physically come
and look at the skulls.
And again, what
most of them say is,
that's not something
that I studied
in medical school,
especially the lack
of the sagittal suture, the
fact that the eye sockets are
at least 50% larger
than normal, the two
holes in the back of
the skull, and the fact
that the foramen magnum
is a full 1 inch back.
That can't be explained through
head binding or anything
like that.
That has to be genetic.
That's proof positive, according
to medical experts that I've
shown that discovery
to, that these were not
Homo sapiens sapiens.
At minimum, they were a
subspecies of Homo sapiens.
>> Some of these skulls
are very well preserved.
There's hairs, and there's skin,
and there's tissue in them.
And so they're
fairly easy to test.
And so the age of
the remains was given
but not the DNA analysis.
And so I was
fortunate enough to be
able to get samples
and send them
to universities to do analysis.
>> Tissue samples taken from
two of the Paracas skulls
by geneticist William Brown and
scientist Nassim Haramein were
given to the UCLA Center for
Genomic and Bioinformatics lab.
Ancient DNA extraction
was performed.
And by early 2019, they started
analyzing the whole genome.
>> We have preliminary results
from the testing we've done,
and it appears to have anomalies
that are very interesting.
Some of the anomalies that
we're finding in the testing
is making us think
that they could be--
a significant possibility
that these are--
the result of some kind of
different species, at least,
than the Homo sapiens sapiens.
>> The 1000 Genomes Project
is the largest public catalog
of human variation
and genotype data.
Initial genetic test results
of the Paracas skulls
relative to this genome
catalog reveals a large degree
of gene variation.
What this indicates is either
non-random changes in the DNA
or a high degree of genetic
divergence from Homo sapiens.
Perhaps even more
fascinating is the analysis
done with a John Hopkins Deep
Sequencing Genomics Core.
No alignment or match to
the human reference genome
was found.
Could these DNA samples from
the Paracas elongated skulls
possibly come from an
extinct race of people?
>> Mostly, we've done the
analysis on the mitochondrial
DNA, which shows some
significant variations that may
suggest that, at least
on the mother's side,
there was some alteration of the
genome structure that makes us
think that it might have been
a sister species from the Homo
sapiens sapiens--
something similar but
not quite the same.
And we don't know where those
genes would have come from.
>> The standard story, again,
from academics is that all
of the people of this area were
descended from people whose
ancestors crossed the
Bering Land Bridge.
And if that was the case,
then the maternal haplogroup,
which is the mother's DNA,
would be haplogroup B.
Because only four bloodlines, or
haplogroups, crossed the Bering
Land Bridge, as far as we know,
to get to this general area.
And those are haplogroups
A, B, C, and D,
with B being the far
most prominent one.
>> A haplogroup is a genetic
population group of people who
share a common ancestor on the
paternal or maternal lineage.
Haplogroups are assigned
letters of the alphabet,
and refinements consist of
additional number and letter
combinations.
>> So we did that analysis,
and we traced the mitochondrial
genome of these two elongated
skulls to the haplogroup that
most closely compares to the
mitochondrial DNA of the two
elongated skulls is in the Black
Sea region of Central Asia.
So this particular haplogroup
is most strongly represented
in this region
around the Black Sea.
And it's very interesting
because, in that region,
you find elongated skulls.
>> You don't have genetic
adaptation in 2,000 or 3,000
or even 10,000 years.
You're talking probably
hundreds of thousands of years.
So you have this sudden
rise of similar culture,
or "similar-looking" people,
quote unquote, in very distant,
separate lands.
That doesn't fit in with
evolution as we know it--
a sudden appearance and
then a rapid disappearance
of these people.
>> It's very unusual
because in South America,
you very rarely or never find
that particular mitochondrial
haplotype.
But these elongated skulls,
that's where they mapped to.
And so what that would suggest
is that the maternal lineage--
the mother's side--
came, in whatever way,
from that geographic region.
These skulls, the
mitochondrial genome from them,
had upwards of 50 single
nucleotide variants,
so more than double
the amount you normally
see in the human
population anywhere.
For comparison, a Neanderthal
mitochondrial genome,
compared to humans,
has about 150
or more single nucleotide
variants, the Denisovan lineage
230 or more.
And so the mother might be
a sister species to human.
Now, at what point do you call
something a separate species?
But the mitochondrial
DNA on the mother's side
is not closely related to
any extant human populations,
either.
>> If DNA sequencing derived
from these elongated skulls
reveal anomalies relating
to the maternal lineage,
then what was uncovered
from the paternal lineage?
>> What you have is a Y
chromosome that is not matching
to the human reference genome.
Y chromosome, suggesting
that the father was not Homo
sapiens.
And if that was the case,
it would go a long way
in explaining why we detected
such a high degree of variation
in the rest of the genome.
Because this variation is
coming from a not entirely Homo
sapiens father.
>> This is very unusual.
It's very unclear
where and what.
If there was a cross
between different species
that produced this
elongated skull feature,
what was the other species?
Now, when we get a
better understanding
of the nuclear DNA of the
father's side of the equation,
we might get a little
more of these answers.
But preliminary results
show that the father's side,
the nuclear DNA, is
less related to human
than a banana, which
a banana is about 40%
the same sequencing as humans.
What it's looking like--
very preliminary-- it
doesn't even have 40%
match to the Homo
sapiens sapiens.
>> Might the anomalous test
results reveal from the DNA
of the Paracas elongated skulls
be evidence of another species
of humans?
Or is it possible that some
kind of genetic tampering
has taken place?
>> If it's a kind of mutation
that you don't naturally see,
that means that it's suggestive
that the changes were directed
by an intelligent agent.
So I could produce that
kind of ratio of changes
by directly engineering
or influencing
the genome of an organism.
>> These highly strange
anomalies are not unique
to the Paracas elongated skulls.
In the Nazca region of
Peru, Gaia investigators
uncovered a female,
mummified humanoid
that the team named Maria.
She also had an elongated
skull with mysterious DNA.
>> It is interesting because
the DNA analysis for Maria had
a 20% matching homology to
the human reference genome.
That's what we saw
with the Y chromosome
for the elongated skulls.
Very interesting.
I could offer some
speculation on that.
Maybe the father
looked more like Maria,
by that kind of hominid form.
That would be in agreement with
the similarity between only 20%
matches up with the
human reference genome,
just like what was
seen with Maria.
>> Other medical
specialists examined Maria.
What they observed
were anomalies
similar to those from
the Paracas region.
Dr. MK Jesse, a
musculoskeletal radiologist
at the University of
Colorado Hospital in Denver,
looked at the scans.
>> The shape of the
skull is interesting.
It's very elongated, an atypical
appearance of a human skull
like you and I know.
The skull, I don't
see any suture lines.
There's no bones that are
separate in the skull.
They all appear fused.
So this appears to
be a solid structure.
>> If the CAT scans and X-rays
proved it was organic bone
and the bones didn't
seem to be altered,
could this be evidence
of a new species?
Angel Romero, a genomic
specialist from Mexico,
seems to think that may be so.
>> I have to say that this
sample contains DNA that we
currently don't know.
It could be from an organism
that has not been studied.
Perhaps there was some
microbiological contamination
of the samples.
But it could also be original
DNA from these bodies.
That means that these bodies
could belong to a previously
unknown species.
>> What the DNA results reveal
from the Nazca mummy, Maria,
are striking anomalies similar
to those from the Paracas
samples.
>> Of the DNA that was isolated,
only 25% of the total matched
any known human gene.
So that means that
75% of this DNA
is not matching any known
human reference sequence.
And this is pretty rigorous
because there's the 1000 Human
Genome Project, where they
have done whole genome
sequencing of over
2,000 individuals
from every continent
on Earth and compiled
kind of like a average
human reference genome.
And so you take these sequences
isolated from the sample
with this being, and you
go and you compare them
to that human reference genome
data, and only 25% match up.
75% don't.
[WHOOSH]
>> The initial question we asked
of gene sequencing laboratories
in Canada, Mexico,
and Russia was,
does this DNA match any
modern human DNA or any DNA
in their data banks?
The answer from all
three labs was, no.
>> We know about the carbon-14
analysis that Maria is 1,700
years old.
We know that the
structure of the body
is not similar to human beings.
We know that the
head is elongated,
that the eyes were
bigger than Os.
That's more or less
what we know of Maria.
>> While remarkably similar
anomalies are found in both
Nazca and Paracas, the question
remains, what might these be?
>> When we examine
these larger, natural,
genetic specimens of elongated
skulls we find in Paracas
of Peru, we have
to ask ourselves,
could this larger brain capacity
be the product of beings that
never evolved here?
I tend to think that's the
case, especially when we look
at the differences
between the Paracas skulls
and even the Incan
royalty, who exhibited
various genetic abnormalities.
>> I know for sure that some
extraterrestrials had sex with
humans--
definitely.
Just read the Bible.
In the beginning, when
the sons of the gods
saw that the daughters
of man were beauty,
they took them to wife.
Which sons of the gods?
There are no sons of the gods.
God has no sons.
It was the extraterrestrials.
Read the Book of Enoch.
The Book of Enoch gives the name
of the guardians of the sky.
And 36 of them went
down to the planet Earth
and they had, definitely,
sex with humans, which is
written in the Book of Enoch.
And the result were Giants.
And the Giants had
elongated heads.
That's why the
humans adored them.
The humans were afraid of them.
Later, the humans copied it.
They wanted to look like them.
There was definitely
a sexual contact
between extraterrestrials
and humans.
[CLIMACTIC MUSIC]
>> A recent publication has
disclosed that the Paracas
skulls have 60% more mass, as
well as being 25% larger than
a human skull.
With mounting evidence that
the elongated skulls in Peru
may be of unknown
genetic origins,
or possibly even
extraterrestrial,
is it possible we need to
reexamine our human history?
>> It challenges our histories.
It challenges us
because the narrative
has to be completely torn
apart and rewritten again.
And I don't think that
traditional academia
has wanted to look at
that up till this point.
>> To me, what happened with
the elongated heads and what it
says about humanity, is
that we don't have all
of the ingredients to be able
to understand the evolution
of humanoids and what eventually
produced the Homo sapiens
sapiens.
We're missing links.
All of a sudden, this Homo
sapiens sapiens occurs which
has a larger skull, right,
almost a doubling of the brain
size, and so on--
much smaller stature--
that this change
happened as a result
of an alteration
of the gene that
was done by external means.
>> They were special
people, probably hybrids.
Probably, they were created.
That we don't know.
Or probably they
were a special race
that disappeared, that they
were here and disappeared,
or they come from somewhere
else, and they left.
It's very difficult
to understand this.
But the only thing
we know for sure
is that those heads were not
deformed, were not created,
by other human beings.
They are natural.
And behind them has to
be a fascinating story.
>> Is it possible that their
ancestors came from another
star system?
My mind and my heart
and my body and spirit
are open to those possibilities.
Because they are
such an anomaly.
Were their ancestors alien?
It's possible.
Were they, to some
degree, alien?
That's possible.
Were they a hybrid of human
and some closely related life
form from this planet or beyond?
That we don't know.
But what we do know
definitively is they were not
Homo sapiens sapiens.
>> I think it's entirely
possible that this progenitor
group with elongated skulls
had bred and intermingled with
various groups of
ancient peoples.
And as time went on and this
lineage started to dissipate,
it was mimicked.
It was copied with the
artificial deformation.
And this group may
have disappeared
into the background.
They may have gone home to
whatever planet they came from.
But one thing is for
certain, that they were here
on our planet.
They influenced our cultures,
our religions, our art.
And they made a gigantic impact.
>> It is without doubt that
humans around the world
practiced intentional cranial
modification to venerate
ancient beings of
advanced culture.
But who were they venerating?
Could the people of
Europe or the Middle East
have migrated to the Americas
long before it's conventionally
believed?
Is it not as likely that
the unusual characteristics
of the Paracas skulls
may possibly be
extraterrestrial in origin?
When DNA testing reveals
characteristics that cannot be
identified in a
worldwide database,
does this prove the case?
As ongoing efforts to examine
the elongated skulls continue,
perhaps one day we may
trace our human origins
to our cosmic family.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In our next episode,
explore the possibility
of extraterrestrials
in the Bible.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]